---
layout: post
title: NHL Exploratory Data Analysis
---

Project goal was to analyze NHL data using R packages learned in ST558 class.  R packages httr and jsonlite were used to fetch data using REST-API endpoints of NHL data and convert them in data.frame data type within R for further exploratory analysis.
R package tidyverse which includes list of packages was used to perform exploratory data analysis (EDA). As part of EDA various tables and charts were created using multiple endpoints. Some times data was combined using inner_joins. 
Using ggplots created various charts such as bar plots, histograms, scatter plot, etc. to further analyze the data.
One of the observations was, most save by goalie in one game had a almost normal distribution with mean of 40. This distribution was same across active and inactive goalies.
The most challenging part was to implement the logic of wrapper and supporting function to fetch data using REST-API from nhl.com. It took multiple iterations and rewrite / rearranging of the code to come up with final set of functions which were lean.
In future, I will spend some time designing the solution, which includes coming up with function names, defining parameters it will take and identify return values. And then implement those functions. This will allow less iterations, save time and also will have more robust code. 

[NHL Project Git Repository](https://github.com/kardeepak77/ST558Prj1)

[NHL Vignettes](https://kardeepak77.github.io/ST558Prj1/)
